what is galera replication and traditional replication 

--Traditional MySQL replication is primarily "asynchronous",
 meaning updates are made on a single master server and propagated to replicas. 
 It does not support automatic failover or resynchronization, 
 making it prone to data inconsistency in the event of a master failure. 

 --Galera is a database 
clustering solution that enables you to set up multi-master clusters 
using synchronous replication. Galera automatically handles keeping the 
data on different nodes in sync while allowing you to send read and 
write queries to any of the nodes in the cluster.

 Galera Cluster is a synchronous multi-master cluster for 
MariaDB with support for XtraDB/InnoDB storage engines. It has the 
following top features.
 (1) It provides active-active multi-master topology
 (2) You can read and write to any cluster node
 (3) It has an automatic node joining
 (4) Automatic membership control, failed nodes drop from the cluster
 (5) Has true parallel replication, on row level
 (6) Direct client connection



Replication & High Availability
Optimize your MySQL infrastructure with flexible, production-ready replication and HA options:

• Asynchronous Replication – Simple and widely used; ideal for read scaling.
• Semi-Synchronous Replication – Reduces data loss risk with minimal performance tradeoff.
• Group Replication – Native MySQL high availability with built-in auto-failover and conflict handling.
• Galera Cluster – Synchronous multi-primary replication for strong consistency and high availability.


Supported Distributions
Choose from top MySQL distributions and deployment sources to match your performance and scalability needs:

• Oracle MySQL – Official upstream community distribution from Oracle
• Percona Server – A drop-in replacement with enhanced performance and advanced diagnostics
• Percona Server Pro – Percona’s enterprise distribution that supports the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS)

ClusterControl also supports installations using official vendor repositories, operating system package managers 
(e.g., APT, YUM), or custom repository binaries — giving you ultimate flexibility.


--Conclusions
In summary, Galera Cluster is superior if compared to MySQL master-master replication due to its synchronous replication support with strong consistency, plus more advanced features like automatic membership control, automatic node provisioning and multi-threaded slaves. Ultimately, this depends on how the application interacts with the database server. Some legacy applications built for a standalone database server may not work well on a clustered setup.

To simplify our points above, the following reasons justify when to use MySQL master-master replication:

Things that are not supported by Galera:
Replication for non-InnoDB/XtraDB tables like MyISAM, Aria, MEMORY or ARCHIVE.
XA transactions.
Statement-based replication between masters (e.g, when bandwidth is very expensive).
Relying on explicit locking like LOCK TABLES statement.
The general query log and the slow query log must be directed to a table, instead of a file.
Loosely coupled setup where the hardware specs, software version and connection speed are significantly different on every master.
When you already have a MySQL replication chain and you want to add another active/backup master for redundancy to speed up failover and recovery time in case if one of the master is unavailable.
If your application can’t be modified to work around Galera Cluster limitations and having a MySQL-aware load balancer like ProxySQL or MaxScale is not an option.
Reasons to pick Galera Cluster over MySQL master-master replication:

Ability to safely write to multiple masters.
Data consistency automatically managed (and guaranteed) across databases.
New database nodes easily introduced and synced.
Failures or inconsistencies automatically detected.
In general, more advanced and robust high availability features.